Hi Serena,

Glad to join zeroone training and happy to have you as BD305 Instructor. My name is Degang and I just registered BD205 and BD305 last Friday, 5/13. I would like to give you some of my background and hope this can help you better understand my questions.

After a long journey in biomedical research, I switched to Biostatistics in 2007. In 2009, I started my SAS programming career. Now I work for a pharmaceutical company remotely from Houston. My daily work is to write SAS code and manipulate large health claims data or electronic health records (a typical data file is around 20G in size and has ~100 millions of records and ~50 variables) to prepare patient level analytic data file and create some descriptive statistics outputs. The business purpose is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of drugs on the market and identify unmet medical areas for new drug development.

I would say I have more interest in programming and data processing than statistical modeling. Big data has been a hot topic for years. I plan to move my career toward this area. This is the reason I take these courses at zeroone training.


I missed your BD205 lectures and the first one of BD305 (Yes, I have access to these videos). May I ask you some general questions about the career perspective in big data? Thank you!

1. There are quite a few job titles on the market, such as data scientist, Spark/Hadoop developer, Spark/Hadoop engineer, big data analyst. Are there others? Could you briefly describe their functionalities/daily duty?

2. Although I have heard big data many many times, I still have no clear idea what a big data job looks like. Could you introduce your daily tasks and how these works contribute to your company?

3. Probably it is too early to ask but I wanted to get a sense of compensation for jobs in the big data field. In my current field, the upper limit is ~$150k for a SAS programmer at the principal level. Would you like give a bit of info on salary for various jobs in the big data field?

4. Considering my background, what kind of job do you think I may seek after taking BD205 and BD305? Surely, I know this is up how good I will be at big data techniques. But I would appreciate your any suggestion.

5. Would you recommand some books for big data, hadoop, python, spark for me?


My apologies for so many questions. Thank you so much for your time and help! I'm still catching up BD205 and the first 2 sessions of BD305. Hopefully I'm able to raise specific technical / programming questions soon.


Thanks,
Degang

dgwangh@yahoo.com
https://github.com/wangdegang

